Greetings, my name is Gautam Akiwate and this is
an abridged version of the ANRP talk
given at the IETF in London on our paper, "Risky
Business, Risks Derived from Registrar
Name Management".
At a high level, this paper is about how registrars
created domain hijacking risks as an accidental
by-product of undocumented operational practices.
We started looking into this issue when in the
course of our research, we noticed that
a large number of domains had their name servers
renamed to a nonsensical name server.
For example, in the case of yourgadgetnews.com,
the name servers ns1 and ns2.noenewbie.com
transitioned to dropthesourcerandomcharacters.biz.
These drop-the-source name servers were not
registered.
Thus, a hijacker could register these domains and
become the authoritative name server for
yourgadgetnews.com.
Not only that, but in our analysis of nine years'
worth of zone 5, we found that 33%
of name servers ending in .biz had the substring
droptheshost in them.
These large numbers indicated that this renaming
was a result of a systemic issue.
In order to understand how the DNS configuration
was being modified, we first needed to understand
how the DNS configuration propagated behind the
scenes.
Given the large numbers, we quickly zeroed in on
EPP, the Extensible Provisioning Protocol,
as the root cause.
Next, we built a simplified mental model for EPP
and then used an example to illustrate
how EPP constraints lead to name servers being
renamed.
A good place to start is to think of the top-level
domain DNS configuration at the registry as
a database.
This database has two types of objects.
First is the domain object, and the second is the
host object.
Every host object in the same top-level domain
needs to have a superordinate domain object.
In this case, ns1.foo.com is the subordinate host
object of foo.com.
No such restrictions exist for host objects
referencing external top-level domains.
Given that, EPP can then be thought of as the
specification on how this database can
be modified.
Note that this is a simplification and that there
is more nuance in EPP, but this simplification
works for the purposes of this presentation.
Consider this example where we have two domain
objects, foo.com, registered by registrar
A, and bar.com, registered by registrar B. Next,
we introduce the host objects.
Note the subordinate relationships for both foo.com
and bar.com.
Also note the delegated nameserver relationship.
In this example, ns1.bar.com is not only a subordinate
host object of bar.com, but also
its delegated nameserver.
On the other hand, ns2.foo.com is a subordinate
host object of foo.com, but also the delegated
nameserver for both foo.com and bar.com.
Note that ns2.foo.com provides nameservice to a
domain not operated by registrar A, but
all of this is fine and working as intentioned
until foo.com expires.
When foo.com expires, registrar A would like to
purge the domain from the database so that
it can stop paying the registry for the domain.
However, EPP requires that before deleting the
domain, it delete the host objects.
So registrar A goes in and deletes ns1.foo.com
with absolutely no problem.
However, when it tries to delete ns2.foo.com, it
cannot do so because it is being referenced
by another domain object, a domain object
controlled by another registrar, in this case
registrar B. At this point, registrar A can give
up and leave the domain in place.
However, to do so means that registrar A keeps
paying the registry for a domain that it is
no longer getting paid for.
To prevent this problem, EPP allows for a host
object to be renamed.
This is important.
EPP allows ns2.foo.com to be renamed and replaced
with another name.
So how exactly does this host object renaming
work?
There are a few limitations on how host objects
can be renamed.
The most important limitation is that if renamed
within the same top level domain, EPP requires
that the domain object to exist.
Specifically, registrar A cannot rename ns2.foo.com
to dropthishostrandomcharacters.com if dropthishostrandomcharacters.com
does not exist.
Note, EPP can enforce this constraint because it
can check for the existence of the domain
object in the same top level domain.
However, since EPP cannot check references to
external top level domains, registrar A
can rename ns2.foo.com to dropthishostrandomcharacters.biz
irrespective of whether dropthishostrandomcharacters.biz
exists or not.
These constraints naturally lead to two choices
for renaming the host object.
The first is to rename the host object under a
sync domain owned by registrar A. This guarantees
the existence of the domain object.
However, now the registrar is on the hook for any
queries and also the upkeep of the
sync domain.
In fact, this is a valid concern since the registrar
that used the sync domain till 2015
abandoned it, exposing thousands of domains to
hijack.
The second option is to rename the nameserver to
a random domain in a different top level
domain.
The different top level domain bypasses the EPP
check that random domain prevents impinging
on existing domains.
Unfortunately, it creates a potential security
risk.
And in our example, we say that the registrar A
chooses this second option, the hijackable
renaming, and renames ns2.foo.com to dropthishostrandomcharacters.biz.
Since dropthishostrandomcharacters.biz is no
longer a subordinate host object of foo.com,
registrar A can go ahead and delete the domain
object foo.com, leaving behind the sacrificial
nameserver dropthishostrandomcharacters.biz,
which is a lame delegation.
Not only is it a lame delegation, if a hijacker
were to register this domain, they would be
able to serve authoritative nameserver queries
for bar.com.
Essentially, we found that EPP consistency
constraints led to unintuitive consequences
on domain deletion.
What makes this particularly insidious is that
this happens without any action from
the domain owner or even its own registrar.
There is no intimation that the nameserver has
been changed.
And what was surprising to us was that even
domains in restricted top-level domains, such
as .gov and .edu, were affected, even though they
did not have any registrars.
If you're interested, please refer to our paper
for more details.
And now that we understand the how, we would like
to understand the who.
Who is responsible for creation of these sacrificial
nameservers?
And be able to do that longitudinally.
To that end, we leveraged the three properties of
sacrificial nameservers.
Again, more details as to the specifics of the
properties are in the paper.
And based on these properties, we could modify
the methodology we had come up with to identify
lame delegations, add some constraints to
identify sacrificial nameservers.
We then applied this methodology on nine years of
zone files spanning roughly 1,250 top-level
domains.
We analyzed, again, roughly 20 million nameservers.
And again, more details on the specifics of the
methodology in the paper.
Using this methodology, we were able to identify
six registrars that used hijackable renaming
idioms.
We found that some registrars adopted different
renaming idioms over the last nine years.
In all, half a million domains were affected as a
result of this renaming.
Not only were half a million domains exposed, but
nearly one-third of the domains thus exposed
were hijacked by actors registering the sacrificial
nameserver domain.
Hijackers registered drop-the-source randomcharacters.biz
to hijack all domains using that nameserver.
Again, we have a lot more details in the paper.
And once we had the how and the who, we started
asking what we could do to remediate the domains.
To that end, we worked with GoDaddy, Enum, and
Internet.bs to choose a non-hijackable
renaming idiom.
As a result of our intervention, we have
prevented roughly 30,000 domains from being
exposed
in the last year.
Additionally, we also worked with a broader
registrar community to address currently affected
domains.
GoDaddy and MarkMonitor were the two registrars
that made some notable efforts.
However, we know that these are short-term
solutions, and we need to look for more permanent
solutions, which invariably means updating EPP.
Again, we have more details as to what these
options look like in the paper.
In conclusion, we identified nameserver renaming
practices and the risks thus created.
We quantified the scope and scale of the risks,
followed by characterizing the abuse of the
affected domains.
Notably, we led remediation efforts with the
registrars to prevent creation of new hijackable
domains and remediate existing affected domains.
And with that, I say thanks.